# Deployment of WordPress Using Terraform

## Objective

Use Terraform to deploy a full WordPress stack on AWS.


## My setup included:

An EC2 instance running WordPress

provider.tf containing AWS provider

embedded user-data script to install dependencies

main.tf with Security groups resource, EC2 resource and required settings

data.tf for up-to-date ami settings

variables.tf for inputs

outputs.tf for instance details

All resources provisioned via Terraform

A working public endpoint that proves a successful WordPress installation

This assignment shows how Terraform manages real infrastructure end-to-end.


## Key take-aways 

I learnt a great deal about terraform and its benefits from this project ranging from the importance of Infrastructure as Code (IaC) to the best practices in structuring the terraform code base. Terraform enables cloud infrastructure to be codified and therefore giving the ability for cloud infrastructure to be provisioned uniformally and in a consistent manner as and when needed. It prevents the need for clicking around on the console and manually creating infrastructure which is often time conusmimg and can lead to serious problems when only a few enginneers are privvy to the infrastructure configuration in a clickOps fashion. 

Structuring the codebase is important to enable resuability of code which falls in line with following the DRY(Don't Repeat Yourself) principle of consistency and collaboration. This can is achieved by placing resuable code into modules where each resource has its own file allowing for easy identification, troubleshooting, and mangement. The use of variables further adds to resuability and also security where the main code does not have to be edited and thus preserved due to a variables file being present.

## Problems encountered

Problem: Intially when trying to access the wordpress page via the public IP address generated by the AWS EC2, I was only able to reach the apache web server page.

Solution: I decided to comnnect to the server via the terminal and checked the html folder to view the index.html file which had not been cleared and updated with the wordpress html file. This was due to some issues with the user-data script having the clear and replace html contents commands excluded from the script.

Problem: Apache program access permissions were not being granted.

Solution: On inspection of the file permissions for specific folders, the ownership had stayed as root and not changed to the correct user. This was due to the fact the wrong service name was being referenced so the user couldn't be found The was because the script was based on Linux Amazon 2 OS rather than Ubuntu OS which was being used. Each OS has a different reference name for the apache service.




